>> Brian Holt: So
I showed that to you just so
you can go play around with all these
if you're interested in playing with,
I don't know, Base64 encoding or
anything like that.
But we are gonna use JSON1, which is,
yeah, I'm gonna go ahead and say it's
the most useful of these, or probably
the one that you'll end up using the most.
>> Brian Holt: So let's go to that one.
So sqlpkg install json1.
Okay, so we're going to install that.
I already have it installed, so
you'll see this at the latest version.
Here, you should see that it'll load.
And we will grab the which here,
so we can get the path.
Very good, we have that.
I'll copy that.
We're gonna do edu-sqLite 3, and
we're gonna open data.db, and
then we're gonna do .load.pathway here,
just like we did with the hello one.
Okay, now it's all loaded, now,
we have our JSON extension loaded, and
we can start making queries.
Why do we care about the JSON extension?
Why is this an important one?
Why do I think you should probably
be using this quite a bit?
>> Brian Holt: I think it's important
because it allows you to have unstructured
data and still be able to use SQL.
So kind a Mongo, where it's just kinda
a grab bag of various different keys and
values.
You can do that with an SQL,
you don't have to have a rigid column for
everything.
This is how you end up 2000
columns in a database,
if you have a bunch of
different potential keys.
30 of them are null, right, and
the rest of them are sometimes populated,
sometimes not.
If you find yourself in that pattern
where, you're taking metadata for media,
maybe, for an example, and if it's a
movie, it has a director, if it's a track,
it has an artist, right, and
a producer, and blah, blah, blah.
There's, this sometime has this,
this sometimes has this, and
you're trying to mix them together.
You don't wanna have 2,000 columns.
What you wanna have is a way to have
unstructured data that can sometimes be
defined and sometimes not.
Normally, you would reach for
Mongo in that kinda situation, but
now with PostgreSQL and JSONB, both in
PostgreSQL and MySQL and now in SQLite,
it's a much better pattern and it's more
accessible within those databases now.
But .load is how you load an extension.
That's just what it's there for.
>> Brian Holt: So you might be wondering,
how do I load this within a Node.js
scenario or something like that?
Because I don't think the dot notation
is gonna work from the clients.
I've never tried.
One might try.
But you can compile SQLite with
the JSON extension pre-built in so
you don't have to do it every single time.
Anyway, yeah, well,
it would be very easy to just say load
sqlite3 with extensions node.js or
something like that.
And I'm sure at the top, I think, a Stack
Overflow, it's something like this, right?
There you go.
It's db.loadExtension is exactly what you
would do.
So there you go.
So that would work.
You can also pre-compile it.
There's a bunch of ways
to go about handling it.
So would you version control
the dependency in your repository, or
would that be installed and
it would be get ignored,
like any other software dependency?
Yeah, the question is, do I keep
it in source control or do I not?
I would be sorely tempted to
just keep it in source control.
It doesn't update that frequently.
Reliably, get the same
one every single time.
It's not a trillion files,
it's a couple of files.
And SQL package, I don't think this has
a manifest that you're able to install.
Maybe it does.
>> Speaker 2: Thought I saw a lockfile
at the bottom of the documentation, but
I didn't-
>> Brian Holt: Lockfile.
>> Speaker 2: Really dig into it.
>> Brian Holt: Neither did I, cool.
Well, if that works well,
I might be tempted to try it.
Good question.
I will say, historically,
I think I've curled it and
just pulled it down, which is probably
not the best way cuz then you
have this point of failure
if it's not working.
But YOLO works on my computer, so
source control seems fine to me.
Typically, I'm not a person to
put generated files into source
control unless it's something
like this where it changes so
infrequently that you
wouldn't be remiss to do so.
So I will say of the two comparing
SQLite's version of the JSON kind of
extension and the one that's built into
Postgres, I prefer the Postgres one.
I think it just makes it a bit cleaner.
This feels kinda tacked on, and
that's because it's kind of tacked on,
whereas it's a core
feature of Postgres now.
That being said, they both work, so.
So we're gonna do that same pattern of
just like using SELECT run functions, cuz
I just want you to see how to formulate
all of these various different queries.
So SELECT json, and it's just a function
that you give it a JSON string, and
it will give you back a JSON
representation of that in SQLite.
So it's kind of awkward to type out, and
I would suggest all of you just copy and
paste this, because, I don't know
if you've ever tried to handcraft
JSON before, but I always get it wrong the
first time, because I get the wrong quote,
the wrong curly brace.
I just never get it right.
username,
>> Brian Holt: btholt,
and then I'm gonna do "favorite".
>> Brian Holt: So we're kinda
gonna start modeling users table.
Maybe we have some sort of ability for
people to log into our site and
click favorites of their band so
they get notified of new releases or
something like that.
That's kind of what we're gonna
model here with the JSON extension.
Mostly, why I would choose JSON in
this particular case is now I can
start modeling favorites as an array
of their favorite artists rather
than have to have another table
of their favorite artists.
To be super frank, given the structure
of our data that already exists where we
already have an artist table,
I probably wouldn't model it this way, or
I would rather collect IDs here,
like 115 or something like that.
That's kind of up to you.
>> Brian Holt: But it does make
it easy to have relations without
necessarily having to have
another table with it.
What's hard though is you can't make
these foreign keys here, right?
So you can't have any sort of protection
that foreign keys should guarantee you.
Cool,, so I did that.
Close, close, close that.
Let's see, I always mess it up.
Nope, that was the wrong one.
No, that was correct.
Never write JSON by hand.
It's embarrassing, username-
>> Speaker 3: Closing paren, right?
>> Brian Holt: Is that what it is?
Yeah, you're right.
You're absolutely right.
There you go, and now I have a full
representation of this in JSON.
Now you might ask me, what is
the actual data type being stored here?
And if you guessed string,
you were correct.
It's just a string.
It's just a JSON string that
you're putting in there.
However, well,
we'll get to that here in a little bit
when we start talking about JSONB.
So what's nice about this, though,
is once you pass it into the JSON object,
it's then ready and available and
validated to be able to be accessed and
queried and stuff like that.
So you'll find yourself using this
JSON function to craft things.
The key here, when working with this
extension, is you wanna use the built-in
functions here to make sure that all
of your data is formulated correctly.
Because right now,
we're using this JSON function, but
we're gonna get to another one that's
actually a binary representation of JSON,
and it's not stored the same way.
It is still a string, but it's compressed.
You'll see when we get there.
Let's do an array.
So this one's helpful.
Craft me an array using JSON, and you just
give it a bunch of pieces of information.
And as you might guess,
it gives you a well-formatted array back.
That's good.
I'm gonna take this one, this function.
I don't wanna write it again.
No one wants to watch me write it again.
And we'll just talk through here,
what's in here?
So json_array_length,
as you might imagine,
you might want to get
a length back from array.
You wanna see how many
favorites Brian has,
so that you can render the UI correctly,
or something like that.
So the first part of the function here is
the actual piece of JSON that you have,
and then the second thing is
the selector that you want.
So dollar sign represents
the object itself, right?
Then period is the accessor.
And then you say,
I know favorites is an array,
give me the number back of
how long that array is.
So what do you expect to get back here?
Here's favorites, there's Daft Punk,
Radiohead, 2, right?
There you go, 2.
JSON type, if you wanna get back
type information, obviously,
this is not gonna give you back
useful type information as is.
So what happens if you
wanna get the username?
Type back.
So again, json_type,
json_string, same one, and
I say $.username, and
we expect to get back what?
String, I think.
Text, there you go, yeah.
What happens if we do,
I don't know if you can even
just do dollar sign,
yeah, object .favorites.
It's an array, and
I think you can even just say that, and
that should give you as well text.
What's happens if we give it 3?
I have no idea.
Nothing, it's not anything.
>> Brian Holt: Says json_type, again,
that's not what I typically use a bunch,
but it's there.
You could definitely
use it if you want to.
>> Brian Holt: This is kind
of an interesting one.
SELECT json_object, and
you just give it pairs of things.
So if I wanted to basically recreate this
one, I would say json_object ['username,
and then whatever comes next is
what's gonna be paired with it.
So I'm gonna do btholt.
Then I can do another one.
As you might guess,
I would have to do favorites.
>> Brian Holt: And then I would
have to do a json_array, right,
so I can embed that here,
of Daft Punk and Radio Head.
Okay, close that and close the other one.
And I think that should be good.
And you can see here we get
the same object back out.
They just have to be in pairs.
Maybe it'll just give it nothing.
I actually don't know if you don't
pair it correctly, what happens.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so it has to
have an even number of arguments,
otherwise it won't work.
Could be helpful.
I'll confess, I learned about this
when I was writing this course, so
I have never used it, but
it is there if you need it.
I could see this being useful with
subqueries where you're just kinda putting
subqueries to put things together.
That would make a lot of sense to
me that that's how that would work.